if you want to harness the full power of
producing Motion Graphics and animations
inside of After Effects there is no
doubt at some point you'll be using
Adobe Illustrator to make your motion
design life so much easier here are five
illustrator to After Effects workflows
you need to know to produce the best
Motion Graphics the first after effects
to illustrator workflow you need to know
about is how to quickly add icon
animations to any project you're working
on here in After Effects so all the
graphics we're using this video can be
downloaded for free on a website called
freepix.com so for example if you're
searching for some icons you can just
type that in here on this website I'll
link in the description and you can
download any set of icons that you want
so here we have our icons in Adobe
Illustrator so in illustrator all I'm
going to do is Select our direct
selection tool and I'll zoom in on icon
and say I want this icon right here well
I just need to copy one of these paths
so we see that I have two paths selected
all I need to do is select one of the
points and delete it and make sure that
entire path is deleted and then we just
select everything again copy it go over
to After Effects we'll go to layer new
shape layer we'll we'll open it up we'll
add a path we'll open a path one select
it and paste that data in there you'll
see that we have our shape path here to
make this larger you can hit Ctrl t or
command T and we can make the path
larger then we go to add and add stroke
and here at the top you can increase the
stroke width and there it is to animate
this just go to add and add a trim paths
add a keyframe for end and then set the
end to zero percent and that's how easy
it is to animate an icon as a stroke
here inside of After Effects utilizing
illustrator the next workflow you need
to know about between After Effects and
illustrator is being able to set up big
Vector scenes like this where there's a
lot of different objects being animated
it's actually very easy to do this you
can animate things like this within a
couple of minutes so here we are in
illustrator when you download scenes
like this for free or we usually receive
files all the layers are going to be
grouped together what we need to do is
make sure that everything is selected
and just go to object and click ungroup
and do this a few times until you see
all of the groups and paths isolated
underneath one layer and with all the
layers selected go to the hamburger icon
and click release two layers sequence
this will separate everything into its
own layer within just one click then
just go ahead and select everything and
bring it outside of the original layer
and then when this is done just go to
file and save it as an illustrator file
and then just take that file you just
saved from illustrator import it into
After Effects set it as composition
click ok then you can double click your
scene and if you want to scale anything
go ahead and select your layers set them
to continuously rasterize by clicking
this icon here and then we scale this up
you will lose no quality detail because
these are vector objects and then to
quickly animate everything just move
your anchor points on top of those
objects and then use some transform
values to animate your objects into your
scene just like that and you can animate
full scenes like this just within a few
minutes worth of time our next technique
is all about using Adobe Illustrator to
create a custom path animation for any
object that you have so let's say you
have a Graphic or a logo you need to
follow the path of save a lightning bolt
well in illustrator you can download a
graphic like that or create your own
custom path so here in illustrator I
have this path that can straight up copy
with the direct selection tool just go
ahead and select the entire path copy it
and back here in After Effects before we
animate our graphic I actually want to
go to layer new solid real quick and
just paste that data in there but then
I'll hit M on my keyboard to bring up
the mask hit Ctrl t or command T we'll
go ahead and make this larger and then
just copy the mass path we'll go to our
graphic hit PR keyboard for position and
just paste that data in there so now our
graphic will follow that path we also
have the keyframes here that we can
stretch out so we can expand the timing
of the animation so whether you decide
to use a graphic or your own shape like
a circle here to create your path it's
really cool to be able to do this
technique the next technique I want to
go through is being able to animate the
individual paths and objects within an
object so let's say for example I want
to animate the handles here on this
clock what I can do is find that object
that we isolated in illustrator we can
right click on it in After Effects go to
create and click on create shapes from
vector layer this will then create a
shape layer and will have every single
path an object right here inside of
after effects that we can animate
individually so for example groups six
and seven for my clock are the handles
so then I can open up these groups go to
transform group then I can animate any
of these values by adding keyframes or I
can just add like a quick expression
like Time Master 20 and this will
animate the handle and that's how you
can quickly animate an individual object
within a large object in After Effects
another great workflow you need to know
about is how to create a seamless scene
so for example I can have this scene go
on forever however the background
graphic that we're using is limited in
size so here's how I would approach the
workflow I have my illustration
background right here I'll go ahead and
create a new composition with this so
here's our background right away I'll go
to layer pre-compose I'll call it scene
background and click OK and if I animate
the position of the scene to animate the
background I'll eventually run out of
the scene so to fix this problem I'll go
to effect stylize and we'll grab motion
tile and if I adjust the Tile Center I
can adjust the x value here and this
will go on forever however if I scroll
along enough will be able to see the cut
of the scene so we have two options here
we can check on mirror edges which you
know for this scene you can probably get
away with it but for another technique
what I was just doing is going back to
illustrator and selecting an object like
a tree or whatever it is copy it go to
file new create yourself a quick
document paste the tree in there and
then just go ahead and save this you
know and then head back over to After
Effects import your tree set the import
kind as footage click OK bring our tree
back into our scene we can make it a
vector layer by continuously rasterizing
it and then just scale it up to fit your
cut we can hide the cut like this
however if we animate The Tile Center
now our tree will not be in place so
then we'll just go to layer new null
object so if you're No Object selected
hit PR keyboard for position go to your
Tile Center ultimate stopwatch for Tile
Center and parent it to the position so
now as you adjust the position of your
null object the scene will move but here
is the cut so now we can turn our tree
back on move the tree to that cut right
there okay board for position for that
vector layer and parent the position to
the null object's position and then you
can just repeat this process and add
other vectors into your scene so you can
hide the cut of your seamless scene to
help you speed up your motion graphic
workflow be sure to download our free
motion duck extension for After Effects
we also have over 20 000 templates in
which you can drag and drop into your
edit and quickly change the parameters
to fit your needs be sure to check out
everything with the links in the
description below